---
published: false
---

## The time to write the book

I'm writing a book. 

It's not one of the abandoned novels.
Nor is it the carefully edited version of my first blog, scraped from the personal, and left with the image of the earlier days of the web.
It's also not a short story anthology.

This is a book about the "Someday Creative". Which is me, and also about a lot of people who have pushed aside their creative endeavors because:
(choose one or choose them all)

* They wanted to be something, an author, a painter, a DJ, a chef, but they only liked the title but did not know what it actually entailed
* They couldn't see their natural creative patterns
* They were confused about ["should and must."](https://medium.com/@elleluna/the-crossroads-of-should-and-must-90c75eb7c5b0) 
* They thought: someday, after I've done this and that.
* They were in a hurry to *be someone* instead of *making things*

I've spent nearly a decade trying to find and define my creative outlet. I have consumed a lot of creative advice across many fields because I'm a curious monster, but didn't hit the breaks in the information overload truck. I thought that by 35 I would be a published fiction author and have a successful career as a Marketing professional because *that's what I studied for* 

However, I'm not. I'm working at a job that doesn't pay much, but that in exchange, allows me to be myself and have an enormous flexibility in my schedule. And I've stayed in that job because it left me time to *do what I loved* but the problem was that I didn't know what it was. In fact, it just left me time to *search*.

I have been on the search for so long and I've done everything one can ever imagine without the certainty of: yes this is it, this is what I want to do.

Then I had the opportunity to spend three months in a tiny, quite boring, village in France and the a decade of search became three months of discovery. At last!

I'm in my 40's now. It's exciting and scary at the same time. Scary because you see the new generations rising creatively to heights never possible for me in my 20s, but also it's exciting because I know *both worlds* the high-speed, internet-driven, social world, and the world without it, and creativity flourishes in combination of both. 

This is a book that covers the realities, pitfals and epiphanies of finding your creative outlet, about what it means to be creative, talented and/or artistic 
It's about what to do once you find the artform you were meant to practice.

**What this book is not**
This is not a business book. It will not teach you how monetize anything. It will teach you to hold on to your creativity and like the good old masters, produce a lot of work for the simple reason that you have no choice.

If you:

Searched and searched
Spent obscene amounts of time consuming what other people make
Spent a lot of money learning something or other
You have a folder called "Someday"
You wake up and remember your age before you remember the day of the week?
(Wether you're 30, 40 or 50, the desire to make something is mysteriously linked to age)

I then invite to take a long deep breath of relief, because I can assure you you can find exactly what you were meant to create. I found it and once I did, it took me three months go from zero to satisfied with my work and I know that my best work is ahead.
Your's is too.

So sign up be the among the early readers and get a free 5 day mini-course in finding your creative outlet once and for all.

