---
published: false
---

##It's Tea Time

*This is a crosspost between Variable Skies and [Je Suis Eclectique](jesuiseclectique.com).*

There are wishes (some people want to call them goals, but I prefer wishes) that you state over and over.

I'd been a web designer a long time ago. My wish, or so I thought, was to refresh my skills and become a web developer. But the wish I kept verbalizing was: I want to build my own website from scratch.

Every time I started to learn something, I went back to: yes but my website I will build it from scratch.

I started learning HTML5 and CSS3 again. Then I decided to take up on WordPress. I kept going like a workflow on Git, opening branches left and right but never merging anything into my "wish". My website did not materialize.

[Variable Skies](http://www.variableskies.com) was built off a free theme and I just fiddle with the CSS. Not my website. 

In December 2013 I bookmarked a Github pages tutorial that appeared on 24 Ways. 
I didn't even attempt to try it. I was too busy with WordPress, learning it and hating it. 

[Ashley Baxter](http://iamashley.co.uk/blog/how-i-learned-to-code-and-why-there-is-no-shortcut/) has written about the importance of having a project when  you want to learn something. 
If you are going to learn to build websites, you need to have a project. A real one or it won't work. (More so if you want to build an app  lest you lose yourself in the million and one tutorials out there, your life will pass you by.)

Let me restate that: You need to have a project that you care about.

**Branch:**
This year I discovered I could draw. It was an accident, I stumbled into it finally after, again, years of wishing I could draw.  Not only did I know how to draw, I discovered that I had an ability to create fashion illustrations. 
This discovery pulled me away from web development for a while which was salutary.

After achieving complete disconnection, I went back to that 24 Ways tutorial and took it slowly. Working a bit at a time each day. First following the tutorial step by step, then changing it a bit until it went from a blank, HTML website with blue links to what it is now.

**Back on track.**

I'm not going to be a freelance web developer. That was never my aim. I wanted to learn how to develop websites to have a part-time side business. But I soon discovered that what I needed to learn was not what I wanted to learn. 

##Rounding up

*I love simple, fast, easy to read websites. 
*I like websites that feel like someone's home.
A WP site doesn't feel like that. I visited many Jekyll sites. They were simple, mostly built by developers but later I discovered some very neat ones, lovely design and ultra fast.

That's what appealed to me, something that works, something that weights very little and that allows people to read the content without a million sponsors and distracting widgets.

It made sense for me to focus on that simplicity. 

##The Tools:

*Github Pages offer free hosting. They allow only HTML, CSS and JavaScript
*But I wanted a blog, so Jekyll was the immediate choice. 
*A CSS framework, I chose Foundation.
*Sublime Text for code editor
*Git for version control
*Terminal

The tutorials I followed:

To understand Github Pages: 
[Getting Started with Github Pages](http://24ways.org/2013/get-started-with-github-pages/)
Understanding Jekyll
[Video on Getting Started with Jekyll](http://youtu.be/iWowJBRMtpc)
[Jekyll by example](https://www.andrewmunsell.com/tutorials/jekyll-by-example)
Git
The most comprehensive [Git tutorial](https://www.atlassian.com/git) 
[Jekyll Documentation ](http://jekyllrb.com/) which could be a bit more accessible for non-developers. 
[Websites built with Jekyll ](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/wiki/Sites)
I spent quite a bit of time here because many of these are abandoned sites, but to be listed there you need to have the source code public, therefore lots of bits to learn.

##Where I got stuck

I've had enormous resistance to learning about domain names, DNS, URL's and all that stuff so when I bought my domain name I dreaded configuring it for my GitHub page. 
Yes, I banged my face into a wall because I didn't know that an A record had to be called an @.
Two days wondering why it didn't work.

I must tip my had at GitHub's support staff.

If you are attempting to be a web designer of web developer, I suggest you learn the basics of Domain names, records, and URL mappings. 

After I managed to get my domain pointing correctly to my site, then came the time to correct all the links to my assets and such.

## Is there a market for Static Websites?

I have no idea. I imagine so because there are several tools to generate static sites, some are Open Source like Jekyll and Middleman, or Statamic (a proper CMS. It requires a license).

The problem is that these tools would be challenging for non-technical users.

To update your content you need to go into your code and into the repository so this represents a poor choice for clients who want to manage their sites on their own.
And you can't publish on a whim from your phone but then again, sitting down and composing a post is more mindful than dictating it to Siri.

There are a few tools like Octopress (which I haven't tried) and [Prose.io](http://prose.io/) to quickly create blog posts. Normally I compose my posts on [draftin.com](http://draftin.com) and then export them.


##So why again?

Because I want my site to be portable,
I want to have it in my hard drive
I want it to be secure
I don't want to have to update plugins and versions and be afraid of losing everything if an update goes awry.
I don't want a bloated CMS injecting p tags all over the place.
I like writing in Markdown
And I want free hosting.

Plus it was a great opportunity to learn to create a small workflow for me and learn more about Git, liquid and of course Jekyll.

So after all this, I'm drinking my black tea with milk Brit style and marvelling at the fact that I built my site from scratch (ok, minus Foundation but I just wanted the grid).
